
.. _welcome:

Welcome to the documentation of SpiceEV - Simulation Program for Individual Charging Events of Electric Vehicles!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SpiceEV is a tool to simulate different charging strategies for a defined set of vehicles and corresponding trips to and from charging stations. The output shows load profiles of the vehicle battery, the
corresponding charging station, the grid connector as well as the electricity price and, if applicable, the stationary batteries. Each vehicle is by default connected to a separate charging station.
All charging stations of one location can be connected to one grid connector with a defined maximum power. Some charging strategies only allow for one grid connector, please check  :ref:`charging strategies <charging_strategies>` for more information.\

The input of SpiceEV is given by a `scenario.json` file. The `scenario.json` contains information about the vehicles and their specific attributes (e.g. battery capacity, charging curve, etc.) as well
as their trips from and to a specific charging station (so called vehicle events). Further, the charging stations attributes, such as its maximum power, the attached grid connector and the according electricity pricing are defined. Depending on the scenario, a certain
foresight can be applied for grid operator signals. If applicable, stationary batteries at the grid connectors with according capacities and c_rates can be defined.
External load profiles or feed in time series attached to a grid connector can be imported from csv files.
The input `scenario.json` file can be generated by one of the generate scripts. See :ref:`generate <generate>` for further details.



.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

   getting_started
   charging_strategies
   simulating_with_spiceev
   code


Indices and tables

    :ref:`genindex`
    :ref:`modindex`
    :ref:`search`
